clarify warn-error in prod (#7169)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/global-configs/warnings.md

title: "Warnings"
id: "warnings"
sidebar: "Warnings"
toc_max_heading_level: 2

> intro_text: "dbt's warnings can be converted to errors using --warn-error flag or WARN_ERROR config, with granular control through options."

Reviewer: you can use either_`--warn-error` or `--warn-error-options` - using `--warn-error` is the same as doing `--warn-error-options '{"error": "all"}'`, it promotes _all_ warnings to errors

---

> Enabling `WARN_ERROR` config or setting the `--warn-error` flag will convert dbt warnings into errors. Any time dbt would normally warn, it will instead raise an error. Examples include `--select` criteria that selects no resources, deprecations, configurations with no associated models, invalid test configurations, or tests and freshness checks that are configured to return warnings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling `WARN_ERROR` config or setting the `--warn-error` flag will convert _all_ dbt warnings into errors. Any time dbt would normally warn, it will instead raise an error. Examples include `--select` criteria that selects no resources, deprecations, configurations with no associated models, invalid test configurations, or tests and freshness checks that are configured to return warnings.
```

>  You would commonly use the `--warn-error` flag to promote test warnings from `severity: warn` to errors, but it actually affects all warning types, including:

Reviewer: I wouldn't say this is "common" but this is one use case.

>  You would commonly use the `--warn-error` flag to promote test warnings from `severity: warn` to errors, but it actually affects all warning types, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of using the `--warn-error` flag to promote _all_ warnings to errors, you can use [`--warn-error-options`](#using-warn_error_options-for-targeted-warnings) flag to promote **specific** warnings to errors, including:
```

Suggested reframe

> * Test warnings (for example, `LogTestResults`)

Reviewer: remove "for example" this is the **exact** event name you should use for `--warn-error-options`

maybe helpful to show example as part of the flag - `--warn-error-options '{"error": ["LogTestResults"]}'`

* Jinja-level warnings (for example, `exceptions.warn`, or `JinjaLogWarning`)
* Selection issues (for example, `NoNodesForSelectionCriteria`)
* Adapter deprecation warnings (for example, `AdapterDeprecationWarning`)

> Consider using [`--warn-error-options`](#use---warn-error-options-for-targeted-warnings) for more targeted control over which warnings are treated as errors.

Reviewer: i would remove this in favor of above reframing

<File name='Usage'>

```text
dbt --warn-error run
```

</File>

## Use `--warn-error-options` for targeted warnings

> Converting any warnings to errors may suit your needs perfectly, but there may be some warnings you just don't care about, and some you care about a lot. The `WARN_ERROR_OPTIONS` config or `--warn-error-options` flag gives you more granular control over _exactly which types of warnings_ are treated as errors. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, you may want to convert **all** warnings to errors. However, when you want _some_ warnings to stay as warnings and only promote or silence specific warnings you can instead use `--warn-error-options`. The `WARN_ERROR_OPTIONS` config or `--warn-error-options` flag gives you more granular control over _exactly which types of warnings_ are treated as errors. 
```

Reviewer: warn error options allows you to specify exactly which warnings:
- remain as warnings
- are promoted to error
- are silenced

  :::caution Proceed with caution in production environments

  Using `warn_error_options: include: "all"` will treat _all_ current and future warnings as errors.

  This means that if a new warning is introduced in a future version of dbt Core, your production job may start failing unexpectedly. We recommend proceeding with caution when doing this in production environments, and explicitly listing only the warnings you want to treat as errors in production.

  :::

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.8">

- Warnings that should be treated as errors can be specified through `error` and/or `warn` parameters. Warning names can be found in:
- [dbt-core's types.py file](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/main/core/dbt/events/types.py), where each class name that inherits from `WarnLevel` corresponds to a warning name (e.g. `AdapterDeprecationWarning`, `NoNodesForSelectionCriteria`).
- Downloading the JSON output logs from a run and searching for the warning.

> - The `error` parameter can be set to `"all"` or `"*"` to treat all warnings as exceptions (errors), or to a list of specific warning names to treat as exceptions. When `error` is set to `"all"` or `"*"`, the optional `warn` parameter can be set to exclude specific warnings from being treated as exceptions.

Reviewer: maybe worth calling out that promoting all warnings to errors is the same as using `--warn-error`

Reviewer: but using `--warn-error-options` allows you to then exclude specific warnings with `warn` parameter

  :::caution Proceed with caution in production environments

  Using `warn_error_options: error: "all"` will treat _all_ current and future warnings as errors.

  This means that if a new warning is introduced in a future version of dbt Core, your production job may start failing unexpectedly. We recommend proceeding with caution when doing this in production environments, and explicitly listing only the warnings you want to treat as errors in production.

  :::

> - Use the `silence` parameter to ignore warnings through project flags, without needing to re-specify the silence list every time. For example, to silence deprecation warnings or certain warnings you want to ignore across your project, you can specify them in the `silence` parameter. This is useful in large projects where certain warnings aren't critical and can be ignored to keep the noise low and logs clean.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the `silence` parameter to ignore warnings. For example, to silence deprecation warnings or certain warnings you want to ignore across your project, you can specify them in the `silence` parameter. This is useful in large projects where certain warnings aren't critical and can be ignored to keep the noise low and logs clean.
```

</VersionBlock>

## Configuration

> You can configure warnings as errors, which can be set through command flags, environment variables, or configuration files like `dbt_project.yml` or `profiles.yml`.

Reviewer: and also which warnings to silence

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.7"> 

> - Promote all warnings to errors using `{"include": "all"}` or `--warn-error-options` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Promote all warnings to errors using `{"include": "all"}` or `--warn-error` flag.
```

This means that if a new warning is introduced in a future version of dbt Core, your production job may start failing unexpectedly. We recommend proceeding with caution when doing this in production environments, and explicitly listing only the warnings you want to treat as errors in production.
:::

Instead of using the `--warn-error` flag to promote _all_ warnings to errors, you can use [`--warn-error-options`](#use---warn-error-options-for-targeted-warnings) flag to promote _specific_ warnings to errors, including:

- Test warnings with the `--warn-error-options '{"include": ["LogTestResults"]}'` flag.
- Jinja-level warnings with the `--warn-error-options '{"include": ["JinjaLogWarning"]}'` flag or [`exceptions.warn`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/exceptions#warn).
- Selection issues with the `--warn-error-options '{"include": ["NoNodesForSelectionCriteria"]}'` flag.
- Adapter deprecation warnings with the `--warn-error-options include": ["AdapterDeprecationWarning"]}'` flag.

</VersionBlock>

<File name='Usage'>

  ```text
  dbt --warn-error run
  ```

</File>

## Use `--warn-error-options` for targeted warnings

> In some cases, you may want to convert _all_ warnings to errors. However, when you want _some_ warnings to stay as warnings and only promote or silence specific warnings you can instead use `--warn-error-options`. The `WARN_ERROR_OPTIONS` config or `--warn-error-options` flag gives you more granular control over _exactly which types of warnings_ are treated as errors. 

Author: i don't know why we capitalize WARN_ERROR_OPTIONS config when the actual parameter is `warn_error_options`. maybe it's just me but capitalizing it makes it seem like it's different?

Reviewer 2: I was trying to make the distinction between environment variable configs (all caps) and flags (`--lowercase`) from what I read in [About flags](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/global-configs/about-global-configs#setting-flags) page and noticed in other flag pages.

But we do this inconsistently in the other available flags: [logs](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/global-configs/logs) vs [indirect selection](https://docs-getdbt-com-git-update-warn-error-dbt-labs.vercel.app/reference/global-configs/indirect-selection). Maybe we stick with lowercase and link to the Env variables page for more info?

Reviewer: hmm yeah the flag is lowercase (`--warn-error-options`), but the env var is all caps (`WARN_ERROR_OPTIONS`)

Using the `--warn-error` flag or `--warn-error-options '{"include": "all"}'` will treat _all_ current and future warnings as errors.

This means that if a new warning is introduced in a future version of dbt Core, your production job may start failing unexpectedly. We recommend proceeding with caution when doing this in production environments, and explicitly listing only the warnings you want to treat as errors in production.
:::

Instead of using the `--warn-error` flag to promote _all_ warnings to errors, you can use [`--warn-error-options`](#use---warn-error-options-for-targeted-warnings) flag to promote _specific_ warnings to errors, including:

- Test warnings with the `--warn-error-options '{"include": ["LogTestResults"]}'` flag.
- Jinja-level warnings with the `--warn-error-options '{"include": ["JinjaLogWarning"]}'` flag or [`exceptions.warn`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/exceptions#warn).
- Selection issues with the `--warn-error-options '{"include": ["NoNodesForSelectionCriteria"]}'` flag.
- Adapter deprecation warnings with the `--warn-error-options '{"include": ["AdapterDeprecationWarning"]}'` flag.

</VersionBlock>

<File name='Usage'>

>   ```text

Author: Not sure if this warn-error command example belongs further up after line 10? Seems a bit weird in its current place and following from warn-error-options?

Reviewer 2: moved [here](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/7169/files/9e413a9989426307fc46833344659a93f65481ae..47c43b9d2d182650a113e31afd19e2b4fb6e0ec5)

title: "Warnings"
id: "warnings"
sidebar: "Warnings"
toc_max_heading_level: 2

> intro_text: "dbt's warnings can be converted to errors using the --warn-error flag to promote all warnings to errors or --warn-error-options for granular control through options."

Reviewer: can convert warnings to error or silence them - so it's more about configuring the severity (?) of these warnings (i'm not totally sure the right way to phrase that)

Author: What about:

Use the --warn-error flag to promote all warnings to errors or --warn-error-options for granular control through options.

> intro_text: "dbt's warnings can be converted to errors using the --warn-error flag to promote all warnings to errors or --warn-error-options for granular control through options."

Author: ```suggestion
intro_text: "Use the --warn-error flag to promote all warnings to errors or --warn-error-options for granular control through options."
```

---

Enabling `WARN_ERROR` config or setting the `--warn-error` flag will convert _all_ dbt warnings into errors. Any time dbt would normally warn, it will instead raise an error. Examples include `--select` criteria that selects no resources, deprecations, configurations with no associated models, invalid test configurations, or tests and freshness checks that are configured to return warnings.

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.8">

:::caution Proceed with caution in production environments

> Using the `--warn-error` flag or `warn_error_options: error: "all"` will treat _all_ current and future warnings as errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `--warn-error` flag or `--warn-error-options '{"error": "all"}'` will treat _all_ current and future warnings as errors.
```

Author: oh great catch! sorry!

This means that if a new warning is introduced in a future version of dbt Core, your production job may start failing unexpectedly. We recommend proceeding with caution when doing this in production environments, and explicitly listing only the warnings you want to treat as errors in production.
:::

> Instead of using the `--warn-error` flag to promote _all_ warnings to errors, you can use [`--warn-error-options`](#use---warn-error-options-for-targeted-warnings) flag to promote _specific_ warnings to errors, including:

Reviewer: I wonder if this should actually be the start of the "Use `--warn-error-options` for targeted warnings" section

> - Test warnings with the `--warn-error-options '{"error": ["LogTestResults"]}'` flag.

Reviewer: maybe link to -> https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/severity

> - Jinja-level warnings with the `--warn-error-options '{"error": ["JinjaLogWarning"]}'` flag or [`exceptions.warn`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/exceptions#warn).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Jinja [exception warnings](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/exceptions#warn) with `--warn-error-options '{"error": ["JinjaLogWarning"]}'`.
```

> - Selection issues with the `--warn-error-options '{"error": ["NoNodesForSelectionCriteria"]}'` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- No nodes selected with `--warn-error-options '{"error": ["NoNodesForSelectionCriteria"]}'.
```

> - Adapter deprecation warnings with the `--warn-error-options '{"error": ["AdapterDeprecationWarning"]}'` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adapter deprecation warnings with `--warn-error-options '{"error": ["AdapterDeprecationWarning"]}'.
```

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.7">

:::caution Proceed with caution in production environments

> Using the `--warn-error` flag or `warn_error_options: include: "all"` will treat _all_ current and future warnings as errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `--warn-error` flag or `--warn-error-options '{"include": "all"}'` will treat _all_ current and future warnings as errors.
```

This means that if a new warning is introduced in a future version of dbt Core, your production job may start failing unexpectedly. We recommend proceeding with caution when doing this in production environments, and explicitly listing only the warnings you want to treat as errors in production.
:::

Instead of using the `--warn-error` flag to promote _all_ warnings to errors, you can use [`--warn-error-options`](#use---warn-error-options-for-targeted-warnings) flag to promote _specific_ warnings to errors, including:

- Test warnings with the `--warn-error-options '{"include": ["LogTestResults"]}'` flag.
- Jinja-level warnings with the `--warn-error-options '{"include": ["JinjaLogWarning"]}'` flag or [`exceptions.warn`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/exceptions#warn).
- Selection issues with the `--warn-error-options '{"include": ["NoNodesForSelectionCriteria"]}'` flag.

> - Adapter deprecation warnings with the `--warn-error-options include": ["AdapterDeprecationWarning"]}'` flag.

Reviewer: same comments as above! but using the old `include` syntax

  ```text
  dbt --warn-error run
  ```

</File>

## Use `--warn-error-options` for targeted warnings

In some cases, you may want to convert _all_ warnings to errors. However, when you want _some_ warnings to stay as warnings and only promote or silence specific warnings you can instead use `--warn-error-options`. The `WARN_ERROR_OPTIONS` config or `--warn-error-options` flag gives you more granular control over _exactly which types of warnings_ are treated as errors. 

:::info `WARN_ERROR` and `WARN_ERROR_OPTIONS` are mutually exclusive
`WARN_ERROR` and `WARN_ERROR_OPTIONS` are mutually exclusive. You can only specify one, even when you're specifying the config in multiple places (like env var or a flag), otherwise, you'll see a usage error.
:::

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.7">

- Warnings that should be treated as errors can be specified through `include` and/or `exclude` parameters. Warning names can be found in:
  - [dbt-core's types.py file](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/main/core/dbt/events/types.py), where each class name that inherits from `WarnLevel` corresponds to a warning name (e.g. `AdapterDeprecationWarning`, `NoNodesForSelectionCriteria`) 

>   - Downloading the JSON output logs from a run and searching for the warning.

Reviewer: you can do this using `--log-format json` flag

Author: oh that's much easier! when i was testing all of this,  i had to download the log and search for it!

<img width="457" alt="Screenshot 2025-04-08 at 20 17 25" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4d0a67ae-1db3-4515-b0cb-53cb159f3ef6" />

Reviewer: oof you went for hard mode 😆

> - The `include` parameter can be set to "all" or "*" to treat all warnings as exceptions, or to a list of specific warning names to treat as exceptions. When include is set to "all" or "*", the optional exclude parameter can be set to exclude specific warnings from being treated as exceptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `include` parameter can be set to "all" or "*" to treat all warnings as exceptions, or to a list of specific warning names to treat as exceptions. When include is set to "all" or "*", the optional `exclude` parameter can be set to exclude specific warnings from being treated as exceptions.
```

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.8">

> - Warnings that should be treated as errors can be specified through `error` and/or `warn` parameters. Warning names can be found in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Warnings that should be treated as errors can be specified through `error` parameter. Warning names can be found in:
```

these are also the names you use for `warn` or for `silence`

  - [dbt-core's types.py file](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/main/core/dbt/events/types.py), where each class name that inherits from `WarnLevel` corresponds to a warning name (e.g. `AdapterDeprecationWarning`, `NoNodesForSelectionCriteria`).
  - Downloading the JSON output logs from a run and searching for the warning.

> - The `error` parameter can be set to `"all"` or `"*"` to treat all warnings as exceptions (errors), or to a list of specific warning names to treat as exceptions. This behavior is the same as using the `--warn-error` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `error` parameter can be set to `"all"` or `"*"` to treat all warnings as errors (this behavior is the same as using the `--warn-error` flag), or to a list of specific warning names to treat as exceptions.
```

>   When `error` is set to `"all"` or `"*"`, the optional `warn` parameter can be set to exclude specific warnings from being treated as exceptions &mdash; similar to the [`--warn-error-options`](#use---warn-error-options-for-targeted-warnings) flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When `error` is set to `"all"` or `"*"`, the optional `warn` parameter can be set to exclude specific warnings from being treated as exceptions &mdash.
```

this _is_ the `--warn-error-options` flag

> - Use the `silence` parameter to ignore warnings. For example, to silence deprecation warnings or certain warnings you want to ignore across your project, you can specify them in the `silence` parameter. This is useful in large projects where certain warnings aren't critical and can be ignored to keep the noise low and logs clean.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the `silence` parameter to ignore warnings. To silence certain warnings you want to ignore, you can specify them in the `silence` parameter. This is useful in large projects where certain warnings aren't critical and can be ignored to keep the noise low and logs clean.
```

</VersionBlock>

## Configuration

> You can configure warnings as errors or which warnings to silence, by setting the config through command flags, environment variables, or configuration files like `dbt_project.yml` or `profiles.yml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure warnings as errors or which warnings to silence, by warn error options through command flag, environment variable, or `dbt_project.yml`.
```

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.7"> 

- Promote all warnings to errors using `{"include": "all"}` or `--warn-error` flag.

> - Promote some warnings to errors using `include`.

Reviewer: with `--warn-error-options` flag

> - Exclude warnings from being treated as errors using `exclude`.

Reviewer: with `--warn-error-options` flag

> In the following example, we're ignoring the [`NoNodesForSelectionCriteria` warning](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/main/core/dbt/events/types.py#L1227) in the `profiles.yml` file by adding it to the `exclude` parameter:

Reviewer: we're promoting all warnings to errors _except_ for `NoNodesForSelectionCriteria`

>   <File name='profiles.yml'>

Reviewer: let's not show the example in profiles.yml, let's use dbt_project.yml instead

Author: @graciegoheen i was going to update this to project.yml but i read in the [1.8 upgrade guide](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-v1.8#quick-hits) that "Custom defaults of [global config flags](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/global-configs/about-global-configs) should be set in the flags dictionary in [dbt_project.yml](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt_project.yml), instead of in [profiles.yml](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/core/connect-data-platform/profiles.yml). Support for profiles.yml has been deprecated." so i interpreted that to mean that any examples for 1.7 and lower should show profiles.yml -- is that right?

Reviewer: ooooooh yep i just missed this versioning block :/

  ```yaml
  config:
    warn_error_options:
      include: all
      exclude: 
        - NoNodesForSelectionCriteria
  ```

  </File>

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.8">
You can choose to:

- Promote all warnings to errors using `{"error": "all"}` or `--warn-error` flag.

> - Promote some warnings to errors using `error` and optionally exclude others from being treated as errors with `warn`. `warn` tells dbt to continue treating the warnings as warnings.

Reviewer: with `--warn-error-options` flag

> - Ignore warnings using `silence`.

Reviewer: with `--warn-error-options` flag

> In the following example, we're ignoring the [`NoNodesForSelectionCriteria` warning](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/main/core/dbt/events/types.py#L1227) in the `dbt_project.yml` file by adding it to the `silence` parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, we're silencing the [`NoNodesForSelectionCriteria` warning](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/blob/main/core/dbt/events/types.py#L1227) in the `dbt_project.yml` file by adding it to the `silence` parameter:
```

  <File name='dbt_project.yml'>

  ```yaml

>   name: "my_dbt_project"
>   tests:
>     +enabled: True

Reviewer: ```suggestion
...
```
